@menu
* ncptl-logmerge manual page::     The result of running ``ncptl-logmerge --man''
@end menu

@c Copyright (C) 2009, Los Alamos National Security, LLC
@c All rights reserved.
@c 
@c Copyright (2009).  Los Alamos National Security, LLC.  This software
@c was produced under U.S. Government contract DE-AC52-06NA25396
@c for Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL), which is operated by
@c Los Alamos National Security, LLC (LANS) for the U.S. Department
@c of Energy. The U.S. Government has rights to use, reproduce,
@c and distribute this software.  NEITHER THE GOVERNMENT NOR LANS
@c MAKES ANY WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, OR ASSUMES ANY LIABILITY
@c FOR THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE. If software is modified to produce
@c derivative works, such modified software should be clearly marked,
@c so as not to confuse it with the version available from LANL.
@c 
@c Additionally, redistribution and use in source and binary forms,
@c with or without modification, are permitted provided that the
@c following conditions are met:
@c 
@c   * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
@c     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
@c 
@c   * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
@c     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer
@c     in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
@c     distribution.
@c 
@c   * Neither the name of Los Alamos National Security, LLC, Los Alamos
@c     National Laboratory, the U.S. Government, nor the names of its
@c     contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
@c     from this software without specific prior written permission.
@c 
@c THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY LANS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY
@c EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
@c IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
@c PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL LANS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
@c LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY,
@c OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT
@c OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
@c BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
@c WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
@c OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE,
@c EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

@node ncptl-logmerge manual page,  , ncptl-logmerge, ncptl-logmerge
@subsubheading NAME


ncptl-logmerge - Merge @ncptl{} log files

@subsubheading SYNOPSIS


ncptl-logmerge
@copt{usage} | @copt{help} | @copt{man}

@sp 1
@noindent
ncptl-logmerge
[@copt{output}=@var{filename}]
[@copt{simplify}]
@var{filename}...

@subsubheading DESCRIPTION


A @ncptl{} program produces one log file per process.  For large
numbers of processes the result can be unwieldy.  @file{ncptl-logmerge}
combines a large set of log files into a single, merged file which can
later be expanded back into its constituent log files.  There are a
number of restrictions on the input to @file{ncptl-logmerge}; see
the Restrictions section for details.

The merged output file does not modify lines which are identical in
all of the input files.  Lines which do differ across input files are
prefixed with the processors and processor ranges in which they
appeared.

As an example, the following text was extracted from a set of 186
@ncptl{} log files (from a 186-processor run):

@example
    # Microsecond timer type: PAPI_get_real_usec()
    # Average microsecond timer overhead: <1 microsecond
    #[0-4,6-12,14-16,18-52,54-78,80-94,96-101,103-121,123-140,142-169,
      171-185]# Microsecond timer increment: 1 +/- 0 microseconds
      (ideal: 1 +/- 0)
    #[5]# Microsecond timer increment: 1.00229 +/- 0.15854
      microseconds (ideal: 1 +/- 0)
    #[13]# Microsecond timer increment: 1.00228 +/- 0.158442
      microseconds (ideal: 1 +/- 0)
    #[17,79]# Microsecond timer increment: 1.00228 +/- 0.158392
      microseconds (ideal: 1 +/- 0)
    #[53]# Microsecond timer increment: 1.00228 +/- 0.158409
      microseconds (ideal: 1 +/- 0)
    #[102]# Microsecond timer increment: 1.00228 +/- 0.158458
      microseconds (ideal: 1 +/- 0)
    #[95,122]# Microsecond timer increment: 1.00228 +/- 0.158474
      microseconds (ideal: 1 +/- 0)
    #[141]# Microsecond timer increment: 1.00228 +/- 0.158491
      microseconds (ideal: 1 +/- 0)
    #[170]# Microsecond timer increment: 1.00228 +/- 0.158524
      microseconds (ideal: 1 +/- 0)
@end example

All of the input files contained the same @code{Microsecond timer type}
and @code{Average microsecond timer overhead} lines.  However, the
measured @code{Microsecond timer increment} varied across input files.
While many of the processors observed an increment of @code{1 +/- 0},
@w{processor 5} was alone in observing @code{1.00229 +/- 0.15854};
@w{processor 13} was alone in observing @code{1.00228 +/- 0.158442}; and,
both @w{processor 17} and @w{processor 79} observed @code{1.00228 +/-
0.158392} as the timer increment.

@file{ncptl-logmerge} can also be instructed to output only the lines
which differ across files.  Common lines are not output.  This feature
is useful for discovering misconfigured nodes in a large computer
system.  For example, on one computer system on which @ncptl{} was
run, five processors were running at a higher clock rate than the
remainder which naturally affected performance.  @file{ncptl-logmerge} can
be used to help identify such outliers.

@subsubheading OPTIONS


@file{ncptl-logmerge} accepts the following command-line options:

@table @asis
@item @copts{u}, @copt{usage}
Output the Synopsis section then exit the program.

@item @copts{h}, @copt{help}
Output the Synopsis section and the Options section then exit the program.

@item @copts{m}, @copt{man}
Output a complete Unix man (``manual'') page for @file{ncptl-logmerge} then
exit the program.

@item @copts{o} @var{filename}, @copt{output}=@var{filename}
@file{ncptl-logmerge} normally writes to the standard output device.  The
@copt{output} option redirects @file{ncptl-logmerge}'s output to a file.

@item @copts{s}, @copt{simplify}
Simplify the output by including only lines which differ across input
files.  No data is output, only prologue and epilogue comments.
@copt{simplify} can be specified up to four times on the command line:

@table @asis
@item once
Omit all comments and all lines which are identical across all input
files.

@item twice
Lines which differ across @var{all} output files (e.g., @code{Processor
(0<=P<tasks)}) are also omitted.

@item three times
The amount of output is further reduced by rounding to two significant
digits all numbers appearing in all input files.  Doing so makes
@code{1.10644 +/- 0.593714} match @code{1.12511 +/- 0.58829}, for example.
(Both are converted to @code{1.1 +/- 0.59}.)

@item four times
Lists of processors are replaced by the list size.  For example,
@code{#[22,67,86,430]} becomes @code{#[4]}.

@end table
Note that @copt{simplify} is intended as a diagnostic tool; files output
using @copt{simplify} cannot be un-merged to recover the original input
files.

@end table
In addition to the preceding options @file{ncptl-logmerge} requires a list
of log files to merge.  If a directory is specified, all of the files
immediately under that directory are used.  (Note that
@file{ncptl-logmerge} does not descend into subdirectories, however.)
Files containing lists of filenames can be specified with a leading
@w{at sign} (``@code{@@}'').  For example, @code{@@filelist.txt} means to read a
list of filenames from @code{@@filelist.txt}.  Filenames beginning with an
@w{at sign} can be specified by doubling the @w{at sign} on the command
line.

@subsubheading DIAGNOSTICS


@table @asis
@item @var{filename} @code{does not look like an unmerged coNCePTuaL log file}
@file{ncptl-logmerge} accepts as input only log files produced directly by
a @ncptl{} program.  It is not a general-purpose file combiner nor
does it accept its own output as input.  Unrecognized input files
cause @file{ncptl-logmerge} to abort with the preceding error message.

@item @code{No processor number found in} @var{filename}
@file{ncptl-logmerge} needs to map filenames to processor numbers to
indicate which processors produced which lines of output.  If an input
file does not contain a @code{Processor (0<=P<tasks)} comment,
@file{ncptl-logmerge} aborts with the preceding error message.

@end table
@subsubheading EXAMPLES


Merge a set of @ncptl{} log files:

@example
    ncptl-logmerge mybenchmark-[0-9]*.log > mybenchmark-all.log
@end example

The following command is equivalent to the preceding one:

@example
    ncptl-logmerge mybenchmark-[0-9]*.log --output=mybenchmark-all.log
@end example

Show only ``interesting'' differences among the input files:

@example
    ncptl-logmerge --simplify --simplify mybenchmark-[0-9]*.log
@end example

For convenience, one can abbreviate @copt{simplify} @copt{simplify}
@copt{simplify} @copt{simplify} to @w{@copts{s} @copts{s} @copts{s} @copts{s}} or even
@code{-ssss}:

@example
    ncptl-logmerge -ssss mybenchmark-[0-9]*.log
@end example

@subsubheading RESTRICTIONS


The log files passed to @file{ncptl-logmerge} are subject to the following
restrictions:

@itemize @bullet
@item
All files must be produced by the same run of the same @ncptl{}
program.

@item
None of the files can have been previously merged by @file{ncptl-logmerge}
(i.e., @file{ncptl-logmerge} can't read its own output).

@item
Only the first filename passed to @file{ncptl-logmerge} is allowed to
contain data.  Data from all other files is discarded with a warning
message.

@end itemize
@subsubheading BUGS


@file{ncptl-logmerge} is not a particularly robust script.  Specifically,
it is confused when input files contain different numbers of comment
lines.  For example, if one input file includes more environment
variables than another or issued a warning about a timer where another
input file didn't, @file{ncptl-logmerge} will erroneously report all
subsequent lines as being mismatched across input files.

@subsubheading SEE ALSO


ncptl-logunmerge(1), ncptl-logextract(1), the @ncptl{} User's Guide

@subsubheading AUTHOR


Scott Pakin, @email{pakin@@lanl.gov}
