@menu
* ncptl-logunmerge manual page::   The result of running ``ncptl-logunmerge --man''
@end menu

@c Copyright (C) 2009, Los Alamos National Security, LLC
@c All rights reserved.
@c 
@c Copyright (2009).  Los Alamos National Security, LLC.  This software
@c was produced under U.S. Government contract DE-AC52-06NA25396
@c for Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL), which is operated by
@c Los Alamos National Security, LLC (LANS) for the U.S. Department
@c of Energy. The U.S. Government has rights to use, reproduce,
@c and distribute this software.  NEITHER THE GOVERNMENT NOR LANS
@c MAKES ANY WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, OR ASSUMES ANY LIABILITY
@c FOR THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE. If software is modified to produce
@c derivative works, such modified software should be clearly marked,
@c so as not to confuse it with the version available from LANL.
@c 
@c Additionally, redistribution and use in source and binary forms,
@c with or without modification, are permitted provided that the
@c following conditions are met:
@c 
@c   * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
@c     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
@c 
@c   * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
@c     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer
@c     in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
@c     distribution.
@c 
@c   * Neither the name of Los Alamos National Security, LLC, Los Alamos
@c     National Laboratory, the U.S. Government, nor the names of its
@c     contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
@c     from this software without specific prior written permission.
@c 
@c THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY LANS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY
@c EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
@c IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
@c PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL LANS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
@c LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY,
@c OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT
@c OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
@c BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
@c WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
@c OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE,
@c EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

@node ncptl-logunmerge manual page,  , ncptl-logunmerge, ncptl-logunmerge
@subsubheading NAME


ncptl-logunmerge - Recover individual @ncptl{} log files from ncptl-logmerge output

@subsubheading SYNOPSIS


ncptl-logunmerge
@copt{usage} | @copt{help} | @copt{man}

@sp 1
@noindent
ncptl-logunmerge
[@copt{logfile}=@var{template}]
[@copt{procs}=@var{process_list}]
[@copt{quiet}]
[@copt{memcache}=@var{megabytes}]
@var{filename}

@subsubheading DESCRIPTION


@file{ncptl-logmerge} merges a set of @ncptl{} log files into a more
convenient, single file.  @file{ncptl-logunmerge} performs the inverse
operation, splitting a merged file into separate @ncptl{} log files.
Specifically, unadorned comment lines such as the following are
written to all log files:

@example
    # Executable name: /home/me/mybenchmark
@end example

Comment lines which specify processor ranges are written to the
appropriate log files.  For example, the following line---with the
leading @code{#[35,43,89]} stripped---is written only to the log files
corresponding to @w{processes 35,} 43, @w{and 89:}

@example
    #[35,43,89]# Minimum sleep time: 9.68 +/- 0.556776
      microseconds (ideal: 1 +/- 0)
@end example

Non-comment lines (i.e., measurement data) such as the following are
written only to @w{process 0's} log file:

@example
    "Contention factor","Msg. size (B)","1/2 RTT (us)","MB/s"
    "(all data)","(all data)","(all data)","(all data)"
    0,1048576,1368.0295,730.978389
    0,524288,691.9115,722.6357706
@end example

@subsubheading OPTIONS


@file{ncptl-logunmerge} accepts the following command-line options:

@table @asis
@item @copts{u}, @copt{usage}
Output the Synopsis section then exit the program.

@item @copts{h}, @copt{help}
Output the Synopsis section and the Options section then exit the program.

@item @copts{m}, @copt{man}
Output a complete Unix man (``manual'') page for @file{ncptl-logunmerge}
then exit the program.

@item @copts{L} @var{template}, @copt{logfile}=@var{template}
Specify a template for the names of the generated log files.  The
template must contain the literal string @code{%p} which will be replaced
by the appropriate processor number.  The template may contain the
literal string @code{%r} (run number) which will be replaced by the
smallest integer which produces a filename that does not already
exist.  In addition, @code{printf()}-style field widths can be used with
@code{%p} and @code{%r}.  For example, @code{%04p} outputs the processor number as
a four-digit number padded on the left with zeroes.

If @copt{logfile} is not specified, @file{ncptl-logunmerge} takes
the default template from the merged log file's @code{Log-file template}
line, discards the directory component of the filename, and uses the
result as the log-file template.

@item @copts{p} @var{process_list}, @copt{procs}=@var{process_list}
Identify a subset of log files to extract from the merged log file.
By default, @file{ncptl-logunmerge} extracts all of the constituent log
files.  @var{process_list} is a comma-separated list of process number or
process ranges.

@item @copts{q}, @copt{quiet}
Suppress progress output.  Normally, @file{ncptl-logunmerge} outputs
status information regarding its operation.  The @copt{quiet} option
instruct @file{ncptl-logunmerge} to output only warning and error
messages.

@item @copts{M} @var{megabytes}, @copt{memcache}=@var{megabytes}
Specify the size of the in-memory file cache.  By default the program
keeps up to @w{8 MB} of extracted file data resident in memory to
improve performance.  The @copt{memcache} option enables more or less
data to be cached in memory.  For example, @coptargs{memcache, 512} specifies
that @w{512 MB} of memory should be reserved for the file cache.

@end table
In addition to the preceding options @file{ncptl-logunmerge} requires the
name of a merged @ncptl{} log file.  If not provided,
@file{ncptl-logunmerge} reads the contents of the merged @ncptl{} log
file from standard input.

@subsubheading DIAGNOSTICS


@table @asis
@item @code{The input file does not look like a merged coNCePTuaL log file}
Only the output from @file{ncptl-logmerge} is valid input to
@file{ncptl-logunmerge}.

@item @code{Unable to find a unique number of tasks in the input file}
@file{ncptl-logunmerge} determines the number of files to generate from
the @code{Number of tasks} prologue comment.  If that comment does not
appear or takes on different values, @file{ncptl-logunmerge} rejects the
input file.

@end table
@subsubheading EXAMPLES


Extract a set of @ncptl{} log files from a merged log file and name
the extracted files @file{happy-0.log}, @file{happy-1.log}, @file{happy-2.log},
etc.:

@example
    ncptl-logunmerge --logfile=happy-%p.log mybenchmark-all.log
@end example

Extract only @file{mybenchmark-0.log}, @file{mybenchmark-50.log},
@file{mybenchmark-51.log}, @file{mybenchmark-52.log}, and
@file{mybenchmark-100.log} from @file{mybenchmark-all.log} (assuming that
@file{mybenchmark-all.log} contains the line @code{# Log-file template:
mybenchmark-%p.log}):

@example
    ncptl-logunmerge --procs=0,50-52,100 mybenchmark-all.log
@end example

@subsubheading SEE ALSO


ncptl-logmerge(1), ncptl-logextract(1), printf(3),
the @ncptl{} User's Guide

@subsubheading AUTHOR


Scott Pakin, @email{pakin@@lanl.gov}
